In this demo, I'm going to show you how to add a health check to your deployment. In your deployments folder,
you will find "helloworld-health check.yml".
This is our deployment object, it still has the "k8s-demo" as a container.
But here we add the "livenessProbe". And this "livenessProbe" is going to check "/" on the "nodejs-port",
which is Port 3000 and it will wait 15 seconds before doing a first check.
I mean, you have a timeout of 30 seconds. You are going to use "kubectl create",
and I am using "kubectl get deployments" or "get pods",
and we can get the status of one pod.
Describe pods. And in the details, we see there's a "Liveness: http-get" on this "nodejs-port"
with a delay of 15 seconds, a timeout of 30 seconds, with a delay between a checks of 10 seconds, but the pod will would consider it healthy
when there's one success or unhealthy when there's three failures.
So, then we have three pods running on our node and if one of those pods gives an error.
So, at that point the container is still running.
These containers still running, but for some reason our app crashed, it doesn't work anymore,
it doesn't give a HTTP 200 code anymore, which is the normal code.
But, for instance, code 500, which shows that there is something wrong done.
With Kubernetes it will terminate the pods and launch new pods. And this is very important because if the pod is not working anymore
and you route traffic to it, then the end-user might get an error,
while there are still other pods that might be healthy.
So, what you want is that you don't route traffic at all to pods that are not healthy
and that's why we have this health check.
So, this health check is very useful and you should always include it if you deploy applications in production.
If you want to edit any settings right now of this deployment you can use "kubectl edit"
And here you see the settings that they can change.
This is a useful trick to also see what settings are available like the "timeout", like the "period",
the "successThreshold", and the failureThreshold". These you can either edit it right here
or include them in the YAML file,
If you would want to change them, otherwise the default values will be used.